This is an introductory file to the strategy

#introduction
#Yu Gui
#China Asset Management Co.
#Quantitative Investment Division
#7/25/2016

Intro:

Delta-t portfolio strategy is inspired by BoA Merrill Lynch's investment clock theory. According to investment clock theory, the economical phases may affect returns among asset classes (stock, bond, cash...). Investment clock theory specifies four economic phases: reflation, recover, overheat and stagnation. 
Reflation:  economic growth rate down, inflation rate down;
Recover:  economic growth rate up, inflation down;
Overheat:   economic growth rate up, inflation up;
Stagnation:   economic growth rate down, inflation up;

For example, according to SYWG(申银万国)'s research: during reflation stage, bond has the best performance; during recover stage and overheat stage, stock has the best performance; during stagnation stage, cash investments have the best performance.

Similarly, S&P500 components (沪深300 for China Market) can be classified into several industries, and the price indices of the industries have their own phases. In a certain economic phase, some of the industries may achieve higher returns then others. 

We assume that the current phase may affect a certain industry's current excess return (current return of the industry investment - current return of the overall market). With the change of economic phase, the expectation of excess return of a industry is also changed. Thus, with the change of economic phase, the excess return of a certain industry may go beyond its historical mean (when the economic stage have positive effects on the industry), and may go below its historical mean (when the economic stage have negative effects on the industry). 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Delta-t portfolio strategy:

The assumptions of Delta-t portfolio strategy:
1. The excess return of investment in a certain industry (return of the industry investment - return of the overall market) has the tendency to converge to its historical mean. 
2. The excess returns of investments in different industries move in a oscillatory fashion.
3. The ratios of the excess returns of investments in different industries are highly correlated, but such correlations are achieved with reasonable time delays (delta-t).

The return of Delta-t portfolio strategy:
Return of portfolio = Excess Return of industry j - Excess Return of industry i.
(In desirable scenario, the Excess Return of industry j should be higher than its historical mean while the Excess Return of industry i should be lower than its historical mean, so that the return of portfolio should be positive)

The methodology of Delta-t portfolio strategy:


